docs/user-guides/ADMIN_GUIDE.md, before:

# Admin Interface Guide

Complete guide for administrators managing RS Systems via Django admin.

## Table of Contents
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Customer Management](#customer-management)
- [Technician Management](#technician-management)
- [Pricing Configuration](#pricing-configuration)
- [Repair Preferences](#repair-preferences)
- [User Management](#user-management)

---

## Getting Started

### Accessing Admin

```
URL: https://[your-domain]/admin/
Credentials: Superuser account
```

### Admin Dashboard Overview

```
RS Systems Administration

AUTHENTICATION AND AUTHORIZATION
- Groups
- Users

CORE
- Customers

CUSTOMER_PORTAL
- Customer preferences
- Customer pricing          ← Pricing configuration
- Customer users
- Repair approvals
- Customer repair preferences  ← NEW: Approval settings

TECHNICIAN_PORTAL
- Repairs
- Technicians              ← Manager setup
- Unit repair counts
- Technician notifications
```

---

## Customer Management

### Viewing Customers

**Navigation**: Admin → Core → Customers

**List View Shows**:
- Company name
- Contact person
- Email
- Phone
- Address

### Creating New Customer

```
1. Click "Add customer" button
2. Fill required fields:
   - Name (company name)
   - Contact_name
   - Email
   - Phone
   - Address
3. Save
```

### Customer Fields

| Field | Description | Required |
|-------|-------------|----------|
| Name | Company name | ✓ |
| Contact_name | Primary contact person | ✓ |
| Email | Contact email | ✓ |
| Phone | Contact phone | ✓ |
| Address | Company address | ✓ |

---

## Technician Management

### Viewing Technicians

**Navigation**: Admin → Technician Portal → Technicians

**List Shows**:
- User (linked Django account)
- Email
- Full Name
- Phone
- Expertise
- Manager (✓ if manager)
- Active (✓ if active)
- Repairs (completed count)

### Creating Technician Profile

**Prerequisites**: User account must exist first

```
1. Admin → Technician Portal → Technicians
2. Click "Add technician"
3. Select user from dropdown
4. Fill basic info:
   - Phone number
   - Expertise (e.g., "Senior Technician")
   - Is active: ✓
5. Save
```

### Promoting to Manager

```
1. Click technician name to edit
2. Scroll to "Manager Capabilities" section
3. Configure:
   ☑ Is manager
   Approval limit: 150.00        ← Max override amount
   ☑ Can assign work
   ☑ Can override pricing
   Managed technicians: [Select team members]
4. Save
```

**Approval Limits**:
- **$50**: New managers, small adjustments only
- **$150**: Standard managers, most situations
- **$500**: Senior managers, major exceptions
- **Blank**: Unlimited (use carefully!)

### Manager Capabilities Explained

| Permission | Effect |
|------------|--------|
| **Is manager** | Grants manager status, sees REQUESTED repairs |
| **Can assign work** | Can assign repairs to team members |
| **Can override pricing** | Shows override section in repair forms |
| **Approval limit** | Maximum override amount allowed |
| **Managed technicians** | Team members this manager supervises |

### Performance Tracking

```
Performance Metrics section:
- Repairs completed: [Auto-updated]
- Average repair time: [Manual entry]
- Customer rating: [Manual entry, 1.00-5.00]
```

### Schedule Management

```
Working hours: JSON format

Example:
{
  "monday": ["9:00", "17:00"],
  "tuesday": ["9:00", "17:00"],
  "wednesday": ["9:00", "17:00"],
  "thursday": ["9:00", "17:00"],
  "friday": ["9:00", "17:00"],
  "saturday": ["9:00", "13:00"],
  "sunday": []
}
```

---

## Pricing Configuration

### Customer Pricing

**Navigation**: Admin → Customer Portal → Customer Pricing

### Creating Custom Pricing

```
1. Click "Add customer pricing"
2. Customer & Settings:
   - Customer: [Select from dropdown]
   ☑ Use custom pricing
   - Notes: "VIP customer - 10% discount on all repairs"

3. Custom Repair Pricing:
   - Repair 1 price: 45.00    (Leave blank for default $50)
   - Repair 2 price: 36.00    (Leave blank for default $40)
   - Repair 3 price: 31.50    (Leave blank for default $35)
   - Repair 4 price: 27.00    (Leave blank for default $30)
   - Repair 5+ price: 22.50   (Leave blank for default $25)

4. Volume Discounts:
   - Threshold: 10            (Number of repairs to qualify)
   - Percentage: 15.00        (Discount percentage, e.g., 15%)

5. Save
```

### Common Pricing Scenarios

#### Scenario 1: Flat Discount (10% off everything)
```
Customer: ABC Logistics
Use custom pricing: ✓
Repair 1: 45.00   (10% off $50)
Repair 2: 36.00   (10% off $40)
Repair 3: 31.50   (10% off $35)
Repair 4: 27.00   (10% off $30)
Repair 5+: 22.50  (10% off $25)
```

#### Scenario 2: Volume Discount Only
```
Customer: City Delivery Co
Use custom pricing: ✓
(Leave all repair prices blank - uses defaults)
Volume threshold: 15
Volume percentage: 20.00
```

#### Scenario 3: Contract Pricing + Volume Bonus
```
Customer: Enterprise Fleet
Use custom pricing: ✓
Repair 1: 40.00
Repair 2: 40.00   (Same rate for first 2)
(Leave 3-5 blank - defaults apply)
Volume threshold: 25
Volume percentage: 15.00
```

### How Pricing Works

**Calculation Order**:
1. Check if custom pricing enabled
2. Get tier price (1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, or 5th+ repair)
3. If tier price blank, use default
4. If volume discount qualified, apply percentage
5. If manager override present, use override

**Example**:
```
Customer: ABC Logistics (custom pricing + volume)
Unit: #45 (3rd repair for this unit)
Total customer repairs: 12 (exceeds threshold of 10)

Calculation:
- Base price (3rd repair): $31.50 (custom tier)
- Volume discount: 15%
- Final price: $31.50 × 0.85 = $26.78
```

---

## Repair Preferences

### Customer Repair Preferences

**Navigation**: Admin → Customer Portal → Customer Repair Preferences

### Approval Modes

**Three Options**:

1. **AUTO_APPROVE**: All field repairs auto-approved
   - Use for: Trusted customers, emergency services
   - Result: Tech can fix what they find immediately

2. **REQUIRE_APPROVAL**: Customer must approve every field repair
   - Use for: Cost-conscious customers, strict budget control
   - Result: Customer sees PENDING repairs on dashboard

3. **UNIT_THRESHOLD**: Auto-approve up to X units per visit
   - Use for: Flexible control, predictable costs
   - Result: First X units auto-approved, rest require approval

### Creating Preference

```
1. Click "Add customer repair preference"
2. Select customer
3. Choose approval mode:
   ● Auto-approve all field repairs
   ○ Require approval for all
   ○ Unit threshold per visit

   If "Unit threshold" selected:
   - Units per visit threshold: 3

4. Save
```

### Lot Walking Service Configuration

**Same Interface**: Admin → Customer Portal → Customer Repair Preferences

Configure scheduled lot walking service for customers:

```
1. Edit existing preference or create new
2. Scroll to "Lot Walking Service Settings" section
3. Configure service:
   ☑ Enable lot walking service

   Frequency: [Dropdown]
   - Weekly
   - Bi-weekly (Every 2 weeks)
   - Monthly
   - Quarterly (Every 3 months)

   Preferred time: 09:00 AM    (Time picker)

   Preferred Days for Lot Walking:
   ☑ Monday
   ☑ Wednesday
   ☑ Friday
   ☐ Tuesday
   ☐ Thursday
   ☐ Saturday
   ☐ Sunday

4. Save
```

**Field Validation**:
- If lot walking is enabled, frequency and time are required
- Days are optional (default to all days if none selected)
- Time uses 24-hour format in admin (e.g., 14:00 for 2:00 PM)

**List View Shows**:
- Customer name
- Approval mode
- Lot walking enabled (✓/✗)
- Lot walking frequency
- Last updated

**Filtering Options**:
- Filter by lot walking enabled (Yes/No)
- Filter by frequency (Weekly/Bi-weekly/Monthly/Quarterly)
- Filter by approval mode
- Filter by update date

### Examples

**Example 1: Trusted Customer**
```
Customer: ABC Logistics
Mode: AUTO_APPROVE

Result:
- Tech finds 5 chips during lot walk
- All 5 auto-approved
- Tech can complete immediately
- Customer invoiced at end
```

**Example 2: Budget-Conscious Customer**
```
Customer: Startup Delivery
Mode: REQUIRE_APPROVAL

Result:
- Tech finds 2 chips
- Both go to PENDING
- Customer sees yellow alert on dashboard
- Must approve before work starts
```

**Example 3: Hybrid Approach**
```
Customer: Mid-Size Fleet
Mode: UNIT_THRESHOLD
Threshold: 3

Result:
- Tech finds 5 chips during visit
- First 3: Auto-approved (under threshold)
- Units 4-5: PENDING (require approval)
- Customer approves additional 2
```

**Example 4: Lot Walking Customer**
```
Customer: Enterprise Fleet Services
Mode: AUTO_APPROVE
Lot Walking: Enabled
Frequency: Weekly
Preferred Time: 9:00 AM
Preferred Days: Monday, Wednesday, Friday

Result:
- Scheduled lot walks on Mon/Wed/Fri at 9:00 AM
- Tech walks lot and identifies damage
- All repairs auto-approved (AUTO_APPROVE mode)
- Tech completes work same visit
- Customer billed weekly
```

---

## User Management

### Creating Users

```
1. Admin → Authentication and Authorization → Users
2. Click "Add user"
3. Enter:
   - Username
   - Password (twice)
4. Save
5. Edit user to add:
   - First name
   - Last name
   - Email address
   - Staff status (if admin)
   - Groups (if technician)
6. Save
```

### User Roles

**Customers**:
- Regular user (not staff)
- Has CustomerUser profile
- Can access /app/* portal

**Technicians**:
- Regular user (not staff)
- Has Technician profile
- Member of "Technicians" group
- Can access /tech/* portal

**Managers**:
- Regular user (not staff)
- Has Technician profile with is_manager=True
- Member of "Technicians" group
- Additional manager permissions
- Can access /tech/* portal

**Admins**:
- Staff status enabled
- Superuser (optional, for full access)
- Can access /admin/* interface

### Groups & Permissions

**Technicians Group**:
- View/Add/Change repairs
- View customers (read-only)
- View/Change own technician profile
- View/Update notifications

**Creating Group** (if needed):
```bash
python manage.py setup_groups
```

---

## Common Admin Tasks

### Task 1: Set Up New Customer with Special Pricing

```
1. Create customer (Core → Customers)
2. Create customer pricing (Customer Portal → Customer Pricing)
   - Configure tiers and/or volume discount
3. Create repair preference (Customer Portal → Customer Repair Preferences)
   - Choose appropriate approval mode
4. Test with sample repair
```

### Task 2: Promote Technician to Manager

```
1. Technician Portal → Technicians
2. Click technician name
3. Manager Capabilities section:
   ☑ Is manager
   Approval limit: 150.00
   ☑ Can assign work
   ☑ Can override pricing
   Select managed technicians
4. Save
5. Verify manager can see override section in repair forms
```

### Task 3: Give Customer Auto-Approval

```
1. Customer Portal → Customer Repair Preferences
2. Add or edit preference
3. Select customer
4. Mode: AUTO_APPROVE
5. Save
6. Test: Tech creates field repair → should be APPROVED immediately
```

### Task 4: Audit Manager Overrides

```
1. Technician Portal → Repairs
2. Add filter: "Cost override is not null"
3. Review overrides:
   - Check override amounts
   - Review override reasons
   - Verify within approval limits
4. Discuss patterns with team
```

### Task 5: Deactivate Technician Temporarily

```
1. Technician Portal → Technicians
2. Click technician name
3. Uncheck "Is active"
4. Save

Result:
- Won't appear in assignment lists
- Can't login to portal
- Existing assignments preserved
```

### Task 6: Configure Lot Walking Service for Customer

```
1. Customer Portal → Customer Repair Preferences
2. Find or create preference for customer
3. Scroll to "Lot Walking Service Settings"
4. Enable and configure:
   ☑ Enable lot walking service
   Frequency: Weekly
   Preferred time: 09:00
   Days: ☑ Monday ☑ Wednesday ☑ Friday
5. Save

Result:
- Customer preferences saved in database
- Settings visible in customer portal (if implemented)
- Ready for scheduling system integration (future feature)
```

---

## Filtering & Searching

### Customer Pricing
- **Filter by**: Use custom pricing (Yes/No), Created date
- **Search**: Customer name, Notes

### Technicians
- **Filter by**: Is manager, Is active, Can assign work, Can override pricing
- **Search**: Username, Email, First name, Last name, Phone

### Repairs
- **Filter by**: Status, Customer, Technician, Date range
- **Search**: Unit number, Notes

---

## Maintenance Tasks

### Weekly
- [ ] Review new customer pricing requests
- [ ] Check manager override usage
- [ ] Update technician performance metrics
- [ ] Review repair approval patterns

### Monthly
- [ ] Audit all custom pricing configurations
- [ ] Review manager approval limits
- [ ] Clean up inactive users
- [ ] Update technician working hours

### Quarterly
- [ ] Review all pricing contracts
- [ ] Audit manager permissions
- [ ] Update volume discount thresholds
- [ ] Prepare performance review data

---

## Troubleshooting

### Issue: Manager Can't See Override Section

**Check**:
1. User has technician profile ✓
2. Technician marked as manager ✓
3. "Can override pricing" checked ✓
4. User logging into /tech/ portal (not /admin/) ✓

### Issue: Custom Pricing Not Applying

**Check**:
1. CustomerPricing record exists ✓
2. "Use custom pricing" checked ✓
3. Tier prices set (blank = default) ✓
4. Test with shell command:
   ```bash
   python manage.py shell -c "
   from apps.technician_portal.services.pricing_service import calculate_repair_cost
   from core.models import Customer
   customer = Customer.objects.get(name='ABC Logistics')
   print(calculate_repair_cost(customer, 1))
   "
   ```

### Issue: Approval Preference Not Working

**Check**:
1. CustomerRepairPreference exists ✓
2. Correct approval mode selected ✓
3. Unit threshold set (if using UNIT_THRESHOLD mode) ✓
4. Test with new repair creation ✓

---

## Best Practices

### Security
- Limit admin access to necessary personnel only
- Use strong, unique passwords for all admin accounts
- Review permissions regularly
- Document all pricing arrangements in notes field

### Data Management
- Back up before major changes
- Test pricing on development before production
- Keep notes updated in all configurations
- Regular audit of user accounts and permissions

### Communication
- Document pricing agreements
- Notify team of manager permission changes
- Keep customers informed of preference changes
- Maintain changelog of admin modifications

---

## Quick Reference Commands

```bash
# Test customer pricing
python manage.py shell -c "
from apps.customer_portal.pricing_models import CustomerPricing
from apps.technician_portal.services.pricing_service import calculate_repair_cost
from core.models import Customer
customer = Customer.objects.get(name='customer_name')
print(f'Repair cost: \${calculate_repair_cost(customer, 1)}')
"

# Check manager permissions
python manage.py shell -c "
from apps.technician_portal.models import Technician
tech = Technician.objects.get(user__username='username')
print(f'Is manager: {tech.is_manager}')
print(f'Approval limit: \${tech.approval_limit}')
"

# List all custom pricing
python manage.py shell -c "
from apps.customer_portal.pricing_models import CustomerPricing
for p in CustomerPricing.objects.filter(use_custom_pricing=True):
    print(f'{p.customer.name}: Tier 1 = \${p.repair_1_price}')
"
```

---

**Last Updated**: October 29, 2025
**For**: RS Systems v1.6.1
**Target Users**: System Administrators

Commit message:

removed requirement for preferred time when customer has lot walking enabled

docs/user-guides/ADMIN_GUIDE.md, after:

# Admin Interface Guide

Complete guide for administrators managing RS Systems via Django admin.

## Table of Contents
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Customer Management](#customer-management)
- [Technician Management](#technician-management)
- [Pricing Configuration](#pricing-configuration)
- [Repair Preferences](#repair-preferences)
- [User Management](#user-management)

---

## Getting Started

### Accessing Admin

```
URL: https://[your-domain]/admin/
Credentials: Superuser account
```

### Admin Dashboard Overview

```
RS Systems Administration

AUTHENTICATION AND AUTHORIZATION
- Groups
- Users

CORE
- Customers

CUSTOMER_PORTAL
- Customer preferences
- Customer pricing          ← Pricing configuration
- Customer users
- Repair approvals
- Customer repair preferences  ← NEW: Approval settings

TECHNICIAN_PORTAL
- Repairs
- Technicians              ← Manager setup
- Unit repair counts
- Technician notifications
```

---

## Customer Management

### Viewing Customers

**Navigation**: Admin → Core → Customers

**List View Shows**:
- Company name
- Contact person
- Email
- Phone
- Address

### Creating New Customer

```
1. Click "Add customer" button
2. Fill required fields:
   - Name (company name)
   - Contact_name
   - Email
   - Phone
   - Address
3. Save
```

### Customer Fields

| Field | Description | Required |
|-------|-------------|----------|
| Name | Company name | ✓ |
| Contact_name | Primary contact person | ✓ |
| Email | Contact email | ✓ |
| Phone | Contact phone | ✓ |
| Address | Company address | ✓ |

---

## Technician Management

### Viewing Technicians

**Navigation**: Admin → Technician Portal → Technicians

**List Shows**:
- User (linked Django account)
- Email
- Full Name
- Phone
- Expertise
- Manager (✓ if manager)
- Active (✓ if active)
- Repairs (completed count)

### Creating Technician Profile

**Prerequisites**: User account must exist first

```
1. Admin → Technician Portal → Technicians
2. Click "Add technician"
3. Select user from dropdown
4. Fill basic info:
   - Phone number
   - Expertise (e.g., "Senior Technician")
   - Is active: ✓
5. Save
```

### Promoting to Manager

```
1. Click technician name to edit
2. Scroll to "Manager Capabilities" section
3. Configure:
   ☑ Is manager
   Approval limit: 150.00        ← Max override amount
   ☑ Can assign work
   ☑ Can override pricing
   Managed technicians: [Select team members]
4. Save
```

**Approval Limits**:
- **$50**: New managers, small adjustments only
- **$150**: Standard managers, most situations
- **$500**: Senior managers, major exceptions
- **Blank**: Unlimited (use carefully!)

### Manager Capabilities Explained

| Permission | Effect |
|------------|--------|
| **Is manager** | Grants manager status, sees REQUESTED repairs |
| **Can assign work** | Can assign repairs to team members |
| **Can override pricing** | Shows override section in repair forms |
| **Approval limit** | Maximum override amount allowed |
| **Managed technicians** | Team members this manager supervises |

### Performance Tracking

```
Performance Metrics section:
- Repairs completed: [Auto-updated]
- Average repair time: [Manual entry]
- Customer rating: [Manual entry, 1.00-5.00]
```

### Schedule Management

```
Working hours: JSON format

Example:
{
  "monday": ["9:00", "17:00"],
  "tuesday": ["9:00", "17:00"],
  "wednesday": ["9:00", "17:00"],
  "thursday": ["9:00", "17:00"],
  "friday": ["9:00", "17:00"],
  "saturday": ["9:00", "13:00"],
  "sunday": []
}
```

---

## Pricing Configuration

### Customer Pricing

**Navigation**: Admin → Customer Portal → Customer Pricing

### Creating Custom Pricing

```
1. Click "Add customer pricing"
2. Customer & Settings:
   - Customer: [Select from dropdown]
   ☑ Use custom pricing
   - Notes: "VIP customer - 10% discount on all repairs"

3. Custom Repair Pricing:
   - Repair 1 price: 45.00    (Leave blank for default $50)
   - Repair 2 price: 36.00    (Leave blank for default $40)
   - Repair 3 price: 31.50    (Leave blank for default $35)
   - Repair 4 price: 27.00    (Leave blank for default $30)
   - Repair 5+ price: 22.50   (Leave blank for default $25)

4. Volume Discounts:
   - Threshold: 10            (Number of repairs to qualify)
   - Percentage: 15.00        (Discount percentage, e.g., 15%)

5. Save
```

### Common Pricing Scenarios

#### Scenario 1: Flat Discount (10% off everything)
```
Customer: ABC Logistics
Use custom pricing: ✓
Repair 1: 45.00   (10% off $50)
Repair 2: 36.00   (10% off $40)
Repair 3: 31.50   (10% off $35)
Repair 4: 27.00   (10% off $30)
Repair 5+: 22.50  (10% off $25)
```

#### Scenario 2: Volume Discount Only
```
Customer: City Delivery Co
Use custom pricing: ✓
(Leave all repair prices blank - uses defaults)
Volume threshold: 15
Volume percentage: 20.00
```

#### Scenario 3: Contract Pricing + Volume Bonus
```
Customer: Enterprise Fleet
Use custom pricing: ✓
Repair 1: 40.00
Repair 2: 40.00   (Same rate for first 2)
(Leave 3-5 blank - defaults apply)
Volume threshold: 25
Volume percentage: 15.00
```

### How Pricing Works

**Calculation Order**:
1. Check if custom pricing enabled
2. Get tier price (1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, or 5th+ repair)
3. If tier price blank, use default
4. If volume discount qualified, apply percentage
5. If manager override present, use override

**Example**:
```
Customer: ABC Logistics (custom pricing + volume)
Unit: #45 (3rd repair for this unit)
Total customer repairs: 12 (exceeds threshold of 10)

Calculation:
- Base price (3rd repair): $31.50 (custom tier)
- Volume discount: 15%
- Final price: $31.50 × 0.85 = $26.78
```

---

## Repair Preferences

### Customer Repair Preferences

**Navigation**: Admin → Customer Portal → Customer Repair Preferences

### Approval Modes

**Three Options**:

1. **AUTO_APPROVE**: All field repairs auto-approved
   - Use for: Trusted customers, emergency services
   - Result: Tech can fix what they find immediately

2. **REQUIRE_APPROVAL**: Customer must approve every field repair
   - Use for: Cost-conscious customers, strict budget control
   - Result: Customer sees PENDING repairs on dashboard

3. **UNIT_THRESHOLD**: Auto-approve up to X units per visit
   - Use for: Flexible control, predictable costs
   - Result: First X units auto-approved, rest require approval

### Creating Preference

```
1. Click "Add customer repair preference"
2. Select customer
3. Choose approval mode:
   ● Auto-approve all field repairs
   ○ Require approval for all
   ○ Unit threshold per visit

   If "Unit threshold" selected:
   - Units per visit threshold: 3

4. Save
```

### Lot Walking Service Configuration

**Same Interface**: Admin → Customer Portal → Customer Repair Preferences

Configure scheduled lot walking service for customers:

```
1. Edit existing preference or create new
2. Scroll to "Lot Walking Service Settings" section
3. Configure service:
   ☑ Enable lot walking service

   Frequency: [Dropdown]
   - Weekly
   - Bi-weekly (Every 2 weeks)
   - Monthly
   - Quarterly (Every 3 months)

   Preferred time: 09:00 AM    (Time picker)

   Preferred Days for Lot Walking:
   ☑ Monday
   ☑ Wednesday
   ☑ Friday
   ☐ Tuesday
   ☐ Thursday
   ☐ Saturday
   ☐ Sunday

4. Save
```

**Field Validation**:
- If lot walking is enabled, only frequency is required
- Time is optional (can be left blank if no preferred time)
- Days are optional (can be left blank if no preferred days)
- Time uses 24-hour format in admin (e.g., 14:00 for 2:00 PM)

**List View Shows**:
- Customer name
- Approval mode
- Lot walking enabled (✓/✗)
- Lot walking frequency
- Last updated

**Filtering Options**:
- Filter by lot walking enabled (Yes/No)
- Filter by frequency (Weekly/Bi-weekly/Monthly/Quarterly)
- Filter by approval mode
- Filter by update date

### Examples

**Example 1: Trusted Customer**
```
Customer: ABC Logistics
Mode: AUTO_APPROVE

Result:
- Tech finds 5 chips during lot walk
- All 5 auto-approved
- Tech can complete immediately
- Customer invoiced at end
```

**Example 2: Budget-Conscious Customer**
```
Customer: Startup Delivery
Mode: REQUIRE_APPROVAL

Result:
- Tech finds 2 chips
- Both go to PENDING
- Customer sees yellow alert on dashboard
- Must approve before work starts
```

**Example 3: Hybrid Approach**
```
Customer: Mid-Size Fleet
Mode: UNIT_THRESHOLD
Threshold: 3

Result:
- Tech finds 5 chips during visit
- First 3: Auto-approved (under threshold)
- Units 4-5: PENDING (require approval)
- Customer approves additional 2
```

**Example 4: Lot Walking Customer**
```
Customer: Enterprise Fleet Services
Mode: AUTO_APPROVE
Lot Walking: Enabled
Frequency: Weekly
Preferred Time: 9:00 AM
Preferred Days: Monday, Wednesday, Friday

Result:
- Scheduled lot walks on Mon/Wed/Fri at 9:00 AM
- Tech walks lot and identifies damage
- All repairs auto-approved (AUTO_APPROVE mode)
- Tech completes work same visit
- Customer billed weekly
```

---

## User Management

### Creating Users

```
1. Admin → Authentication and Authorization → Users
2. Click "Add user"
3. Enter:
   - Username
   - Password (twice)
4. Save
5. Edit user to add:
   - First name
   - Last name
   - Email address
   - Staff status (if admin)
   - Groups (if technician)
6. Save
```

### User Roles

**Customers**:
- Regular user (not staff)
- Has CustomerUser profile
- Can access /app/* portal

**Technicians**:
- Regular user (not staff)
- Has Technician profile
- Member of "Technicians" group
- Can access /tech/* portal

**Managers**:
- Regular user (not staff)
- Has Technician profile with is_manager=True
- Member of "Technicians" group
- Additional manager permissions
- Can access /tech/* portal

**Admins**:
- Staff status enabled
- Superuser (optional, for full access)
- Can access /admin/* interface

### Groups & Permissions

**Technicians Group**:
- View/Add/Change repairs
- View customers (read-only)
- View/Change own technician profile
- View/Update notifications

**Creating Group** (if needed):
```bash
python manage.py setup_groups
```

---

## Common Admin Tasks

### Task 1: Set Up New Customer with Special Pricing

```
1. Create customer (Core → Customers)
2. Create customer pricing (Customer Portal → Customer Pricing)
   - Configure tiers and/or volume discount
3. Create repair preference (Customer Portal → Customer Repair Preferences)
   - Choose appropriate approval mode
4. Test with sample repair
```

### Task 2: Promote Technician to Manager

```
1. Technician Portal → Technicians
2. Click technician name
3. Manager Capabilities section:
   ☑ Is manager
   Approval limit: 150.00
   ☑ Can assign work
   ☑ Can override pricing
   Select managed technicians
4. Save
5. Verify manager can see override section in repair forms
```

### Task 3: Give Customer Auto-Approval

```
1. Customer Portal → Customer Repair Preferences
2. Add or edit preference
3. Select customer
4. Mode: AUTO_APPROVE
5. Save
6. Test: Tech creates field repair → should be APPROVED immediately
```

### Task 4: Audit Manager Overrides

```
1. Technician Portal → Repairs
2. Add filter: "Cost override is not null"
3. Review overrides:
   - Check override amounts
   - Review override reasons
   - Verify within approval limits
4. Discuss patterns with team
```

### Task 5: Deactivate Technician Temporarily

```
1. Technician Portal → Technicians
2. Click technician name
3. Uncheck "Is active"
4. Save

Result:
- Won't appear in assignment lists
- Can't login to portal
- Existing assignments preserved
```

### Task 6: Configure Lot Walking Service for Customer

```
1. Customer Portal → Customer Repair Preferences
2. Find or create preference for customer
3. Scroll to "Lot Walking Service Settings"
4. Enable and configure:
   ☑ Enable lot walking service
   Frequency: Weekly
   Preferred time: 09:00
   Days: ☑ Monday ☑ Wednesday ☑ Friday
5. Save

Result:
- Customer preferences saved in database
- Settings visible in customer portal (if implemented)
- Ready for scheduling system integration (future feature)
```

---

## Filtering & Searching

### Customer Pricing
- **Filter by**: Use custom pricing (Yes/No), Created date
- **Search**: Customer name, Notes

### Technicians
- **Filter by**: Is manager, Is active, Can assign work, Can override pricing
- **Search**: Username, Email, First name, Last name, Phone

### Repairs
- **Filter by**: Status, Customer, Technician, Date range
- **Search**: Unit number, Notes

---

## Maintenance Tasks

### Weekly
- [ ] Review new customer pricing requests
- [ ] Check manager override usage
- [ ] Update technician performance metrics
- [ ] Review repair approval patterns

### Monthly
- [ ] Audit all custom pricing configurations
- [ ] Review manager approval limits
- [ ] Clean up inactive users
- [ ] Update technician working hours

### Quarterly
- [ ] Review all pricing contracts
- [ ] Audit manager permissions
- [ ] Update volume discount thresholds
- [ ] Prepare performance review data

---

## Troubleshooting

### Issue: Manager Can't See Override Section

**Check**:
1. User has technician profile ✓
2. Technician marked as manager ✓
3. "Can override pricing" checked ✓
4. User logging into /tech/ portal (not /admin/) ✓

### Issue: Custom Pricing Not Applying

**Check**:
1. CustomerPricing record exists ✓
2. "Use custom pricing" checked ✓
3. Tier prices set (blank = default) ✓
4. Test with shell command:
   ```bash
   python manage.py shell -c "
   from apps.technician_portal.services.pricing_service import calculate_repair_cost
   from core.models import Customer
   customer = Customer.objects.get(name='ABC Logistics')
   print(calculate_repair_cost(customer, 1))
   "
   ```

### Issue: Approval Preference Not Working

**Check**:
1. CustomerRepairPreference exists ✓
2. Correct approval mode selected ✓
3. Unit threshold set (if using UNIT_THRESHOLD mode) ✓
4. Test with new repair creation ✓

---

## Best Practices

### Security
- Limit admin access to necessary personnel only
- Use strong, unique passwords for all admin accounts
- Review permissions regularly
- Document all pricing arrangements in notes field

### Data Management
- Back up before major changes
- Test pricing on development before production
- Keep notes updated in all configurations
- Regular audit of user accounts and permissions

### Communication
- Document pricing agreements
- Notify team of manager permission changes
- Keep customers informed of preference changes
- Maintain changelog of admin modifications

---

## Quick Reference Commands

```bash
# Test customer pricing
python manage.py shell -c "
from apps.customer_portal.pricing_models import CustomerPricing
from apps.technician_portal.services.pricing_service import calculate_repair_cost
from core.models import Customer
customer = Customer.objects.get(name='customer_name')
print(f'Repair cost: \${calculate_repair_cost(customer, 1)}')
"

# Check manager permissions
python manage.py shell -c "
from apps.technician_portal.models import Technician
tech = Technician.objects.get(user__username='username')
print(f'Is manager: {tech.is_manager}')
print(f'Approval limit: \${tech.approval_limit}')
"

# List all custom pricing
python manage.py shell -c "
from apps.customer_portal.pricing_models import CustomerPricing
for p in CustomerPricing.objects.filter(use_custom_pricing=True):
    print(f'{p.customer.name}: Tier 1 = \${p.repair_1_price}')
"
```

---

**Last Updated**: October 29, 2025
**For**: RS Systems v1.6.1
**Target Users**: System Administrators
